---
layout: default
title: "AI Assistant Dependency: W3"
runbook-name: "AI Assistant Dependency: W3"
description: "AI Assistant Dependency: W3"
service: "AI Assistant"
tags: ai-assistant, w3, login
link: /ai-assistant/alerts/w3.html
type: Informational
parent: AI Assistant
grand_parent: Armada Runbooks

---

Informational
{: .label }

## Overview

Provides general details about how W3 login is used and how to get support / troubleshoot.

## Detailed Information

W3 login is used by the Question Answer analyzer tool.   Access to the tool is described in the [bluegroup-sync](../operations/bluegroup-sync.html) document.

The qa-analyzer service calls <https://login.w3.ibm.com/oidc/endpoint/default/jwks> to obtain certificates and tokens.

If call fails consistently it could mean that the either the service is down or that the IP for the cluster generating the call, has been blocked by Akamai.

- If the HTTP Status is `403` this will generally mean that Akamai is blocking the call for some reason.  W3 support can help verify this.  Provide the IP address of the cluster where the serivce is mis-behaving
- If the HTTP statis is something else, it could be that the service is not healthy.  Contact the W3 team

IF the issue is that the service is blocked, ,escalate to Dreadnought / Platform SRE

- remove the qa-analyzer service.  This will prevent any more spamming of the IPS ( helm uninstall )
- remove the cluster from the Akamai load balancer.  This will prevent errant traffic from reaching this cluster

There is no timeframe for when the cluster IPs will be removed from the block list.  It can take up to a week.

## Escalation Policy

- If the service is being affected by a dependency, please follow the information in the [Dependencies Runbook](ai-assistant-dependencies.html)
- If the service is not functional, please follow the escalation policy documented in the [AI Assistant Escalation Policy](../ai-assistant-escalation-policy.html)

## Further Information

Slack support: #w3id-support
Cluster networking: [IP Addresses](../operations/networking.html)
